8/21/2024(Written on this date, but put in github later)

This is something that I didn't mull over for long, but it taught me to pay attention to details.
I have also kept this as a prerequisite to ComplexvsSimplicity.

Complex by definition is something said to describe a process with many different, but connected steps. 
Simplicity is defined as a process with fewer different and overall steps. As you can see, I had been 
using the world complex erroneously. Complexity and difficulty are two different terms. Complex things 
by nature are seen as difficult, and while that is a fair assessment to make, sometimes complexity is 
not difficult. A complex thing might have many steps, but does not take a multitude of effort to 
complete those, just perhaps requiring time.

Simplicity is used interchangeably with processes that are easy and require fewer steps, so I do not 
need to clarify that. 

An example of what I said above is the processes of an automobile. While many different components are 
involved in a car from its engine, to the transmission, to climate control and onboard computers, it is 
not difficult to grasp how these systems all work together. 
Of course, the specific engineering knowledge required to manufacture and engineer vehicles is difficult 
to grasp, but knowing how your car and its systems work to a certain technical level is not difficult to 
understand, as evidenced by numerous repair videos on the internet. 

Try finding the same videos for an Airbus. Nowhere near as many right?

However, it is still impossible to really see the difference in meaning, when the two terms have become so 
interchangeable.

Besides, there is a word to describe what I said above. How tedious something is used to describe a task or 
problem that requires a lot of work, but is straightforward. 

Something like solving a linear ordinary differential function.

So how do we solve this word confusion?

We can continue using tedious since it is a far more specific term to use and provides more clarity. 
Complexity and difficulty are used interchangeably and most wouldn’t care to note the difference anyway.
