DISCLAIMER

~~~
What seems confusing to me might not be confusing to you. What I write may not make sense to you. But you have 
to understand I am growing as a person, and my view of the world/universe will become more accurate overtime. 

Feel free to drop constructive criticism, and fact checking. It is really important to me that I do not write 
incorrect information or use terrible grammar, so please let me know if there are any mistakes. If my reasoning 
does not seem to align with my opinion, please let me know so I can clarify/fix this. It is highly appreciated.

Now, I am writing my opinions. I try to base it off facts, but I am human and emotions do seep into opinions by 
nature. Please spare scathing/insulting remarks. I am open to criticism of poor reasoning that does not support 
my opinion, but not ridiculing someone’s opinion because it differs/sounds stupid/does not align with yours.

I will write about why it has confused me, and a potential solution to this confusion. Feel free to let me know 
if you have any additional ideas or disagree with me in any way. I want to hear new perspectives/ideas because it 
may end my mulling lol.
~~~

Many of us must have used these words in the following way. “This problem is simple, it should not take that long, 
”or “Doing X task is complex, it will take eons”.
However, after truly thinking about it,  I realized I spent the majority of my formative years thinking about the 
concept of complexity/simplicity incorrectly.

I will write about why it has confused me, and a potential solution to this confusion. Feel free to let me know if 
you have any additional ideas or disagree with me in any way. I want to hear it because I want the agony of 
mulling over this to end.

I have come to realize that simple and complex are separated by a thin line. 

I am unfortunately not articulate enough to clearly describe what I mean, so I am relying on examples.

The first time I realized this was after an expedition I took into languages, human and machine. Let me first 
discuss human languages.

Some languages are very obviously more complicated than others.

Take Cantonese, with nine tones. Nine different ways to say a single syllable. The word si can mean teacher, 
history, or market depending on how you say it. Cantonese is one of 1% of major languages(More than 10K speakers) 
that have 
this many tones. 

Now, if you're a native speaker of Cantonese, you obviously don’t have trouble distinguishing the tones. To a 
person who does not speak a language with tones, this is usually considered complicated by them. Speakers of other 
tonal languages like Thai and Vietnamese have reported little difficulty learning Cantonese tones, while speakers
of European languages have not. 

As an native English speaker, this seems utterly impossible to comprehend.

But a native speaker of Cantonese will not see tones as difficult. It’s natural to them as they grew up speaking 
with tones.

This is what I find paradoxical about describing tasks, ideas or concepts simple or complex.

Here is another example from math.

I recently dabbled in Discrete Mathematics. Specifically the one about Logic and Truth Tables.

An important concept of Discrete Mathematics is interpretation of English statements to mathematical statements. 

“If and only if the light switch has been turned on, the fan will be turned on”

A = Light Switch is on
B =Fan is on
A  B

For some, translating the English statement into a proposition is quite easy, even if there are dozens of ways for 
the above statement to be written.

Some find this difficult though because of the vast amount of ways the English language can be interpreted. Those 
who excel at reading comprehension would probably find this easier

Translating a proposition to English is quite simple for some. Those who excel at Logic would translate this to a 
clear sentence. 

However, like I mentioned above, there are dozens of ways to interpret a statement in the English language. Some 
may struggle to translate the math to an English statement.

Some argue that one way is easier, while others argue the other way is easier.

This is definitely not true concepts that require only copying or mimicry to understand, like talking or running. 
Infants and younger toddlers pick up on these. Of course, some struggle, but there is no doubt that someone not 
disabled in some way that has prevented them from doing this has done these things.

Many people on the other hand struggle with application of concepts in areas like physics and specific memorization 
in anatomy.

What I concluded after all this was that how complicated or simple something seems is largely due to preference and 
perspective. 
Every person has different preferences to things they like and perspectives on tasks and ideas. If something doesn’t 
match their preference or perspective, they view it as complicated. 

I also believe in Sigmund Freud’s Iceberg theory on the unconscious mind. It states that we subconsciously begin to 
believe things that we are repeatedly told over a period of time. If someone is repeatedly told that a concept, topic 
or idea is impossible and complicated, they would slowly and subconsciously accept this.


This could explain why the vast majority of the populace finds specific topics more difficult. 

If we as a society claim that Physics is challenging and difficult, those who have not learned physics before will
probably go into learning it thinking it is tough. We cannot blame them however, it's simply the way humans are wired.

What have I learned from this mulling?

It is that we should never form opinions on things that we have never experienced ourselves, lest it will ruin the 
wondrousfeeling of self-discovery and forming individual opinons. 

This is why people suggest having a positive attitude when doing things. It makes us more willing to understand doing 
thingsthat are “complicated” in our view.

Of course this is easier said than done, and it is impossible to limit external influences to affect our thoughts. 

However, it is possible to limit and control these thoughts.

This is not something I live by as of now, but it is something that I am trying to strongly infuse in my thought process. 

There probably is a better answer to this question so please let me know what you think.
